# Meshfree Modelling of Thin Plate Bending Using Reproducing Kernel Particle Method RKPM
**How to run:**
Read "plate_RKPM" as the main script; the rest are the UDF

**Subject:**
A project report submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the award of the degree of Master of Engineering (Structure)

**Abstract:**
Meshfree methods are currently a popular numerical simulation method to be explored by researchers due to its superior characteristics as compared to the Finite Element Method (FEM). Meshfree methods represent the problem domain with a set of scattered nodes instead of meshes like the conventional FEM. Hence, this paper presents a meshfree modelling of deflection for thin plate structure using the Reproducing Kernel Particle Method (RKPM). The main interest of this study is to investigate the performances of RKPM in modelling the bending behaviour of thin plate structure. The development of RKPM in this study is deemed as “infant stage” where the findings can be a valuable addition to the body of knowledge of RKPM. The developed model of thin plate structure can act as an initiation or reference for more complex problems in the future. To conduct this study, the use of MATLAB is required to computerize the RKPM formulation. An intensive literature review has been carried out to deepen the knowledge and understanding of all the RKPM expressions involved. An algorithm of the overall flow is then outlined and translated into the MATLAB computer programming language accordingly. Successfully-developed RKPM model is ready after several repetitions of testing and debugging process. Throughout the study, it is proven that cubic B-spline is the most satisfactory kernel function to be used due to its high consistency which provides a better approximation of data. Comparison of performance between RKPM and Element-free Galerkin method (EFG) in estimating the deflection of thin plate has brought to light that the performance of RKPM outstands EFG even with lesser nodes within the problem domain. In short, RKPM is definitely a potential numerical method to be developed. Through the depiction of a relatively simple structure – thin plate, this study successfully provides all the basic knowledge required by researchers who are interested in exploring RKPM.
